Proposed nomination schedule (#18)
dotnet-foundation/wg-membership: proposals/nomination-schedule.md

# Proposed Nomination Schedule

| Event                          | Time Taken  | What's involved |
| :------------------------------ |:-----------| :---------------|

> | Marketing of board nominations | 1 week      | - Raise awareness of the board nominations coming up. <br/> - Share requirements for being eligible for being a board member. <br/> - Share the commitments and responsibilities of being a board member.<br/> - Share how to nominate yourself or someone else for the board. <br/> - Share how and why to become a member of the .NET Foundation.  |

Reviewer: From committee discussion: We should add time for forming the nominating committee. That responsibility doesn't fall entirely to the membership committee, but does take time. My notes say this would take 3 weeks.

> | Marketing of board nominations | 1 week      | - Raise awareness of the board nominations coming up. <br/> - Share requirements for being eligible for being a board member. <br/> - Share the commitments and responsibilities of being a board member.<br/> - Share how to nominate yourself or someone else for the board. <br/> - Share how and why to become a member of the .NET Foundation.  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Marketing | 2+ months | - Announce the nomination schedule at Build end of May. <br/> - Comms/PR plan (become a member campaign). <br/> - Co-marketing plan with partners & corporate sponsors.  <br/> - Create promotion assets and copy.  |
| Promotion of board nominations | 2+ weeks      | - Raise awareness of the board nominations coming up. <br/> - Share requirements for being eligible for being a board member. <br/> - Share the commitments and responsibilities of being a board member.<br/> - Share how to nominate yourself or someone else for the board. <br/> - Share how and why to become a member of the .NET Foundation.  |
```

Reviewer 2: Added more runway for marketing. I think we'd want to capitalize on the PR from Build to start a membership drive and announce the nomination schedule early.

| Promotion of candidates        | 2 weeks | - Shortlist of candidates is shared with the public. <br/> - Promotional activities to share more about the candidates to help combat the "popularity contest". |
| Voting period                  | 2 weeks     | - Members to vote on who they want as the board members. |

<br/>

## Lessons from last time

- We need a clear and universal message for what are the requirements for becoming a board member. 
  - They need to be a .NET Foundation member.
  - They need to identify with one or more of the member participation types (don't have to be OSS contributors).
  - How this aligns to the purpose of the .NET Foundation (that the .NET Foundation is not purely for OSS).
- Promotion and outreach with diverse groups could be beneficial. We struggled with representation last year.
- Clarity on what is involved in being a board member may help those who aren't sure about going forward for it.
- A list of members for the nomination committee will help them know who they can reach out to and offer support with their applications.

> - Are there alternate channels we can promote through beyond the .NET Foundation media channels? Such as asking members who run events to promote the board nomination process.

Reviewer: Other random notes I have from our meeting on lessons learned:

- When reaching out to potential members of the nominating committee, be sure to explain that nominating committee members can't stand for election.
- We need to reach out underrepresented geographies and groups for the nominating committee to encourage members of those groups and geographies to run for board seats.
-
